# GBFS Validator Pipeline

This pipeline consists of two functions that work together to validate GBFS feeds:

1. **`gbfs-validator-batch`**: This function is HTTP-triggered by a Cloud Scheduler.
2. **`gbfs-validator-pubsub`**: This function is triggered by a Pub/Sub message.

### Pipeline Overview

- **`gbfs-validator-batch`**: This function checks all GBFS feeds in the database and publishes a message to the Pub/Sub topic for each feed to initiate its validation.
- **`gbfs-validator-pubsub`**: This function is triggered by the Pub/Sub message generated by the batch function. It handles the validation of the individual feed.

### Message Format

The message published by the batch function to the Pub/Sub topic follows this format:

```json
{
    "message": {
        "data": {
            "execution_id": "execution_id",
            "stable_id": "stable_id",
            "feed_id": "id",
            "url": "auto_discovery_url",
            "latest_version": "version"
        }            
    }
}
```

### Functionality Details

- **`gbfs-validator-batch`**: Triggered per execution ID, this function iterates over all GBFS feeds, preparing and publishing individual messages to the Pub/Sub topic.
- **`gbfs-validator-pubsub`**: Triggered per feed, this function performs the following steps:
  1. **Access the autodiscovery URL and update versions**: The function accesses the autodiscovery URL to update the **GBFSVersions** table.
  2. **Measure latency and validate the feed**: For each version, the function measures the response latency and validates the feed. The validation summary is stored in GCP, and the total error count is extracted and saved in the **GBFSValidationReport**.
  3. **Store validation details**: The function stores detailed errors as **GBFSNotice** entities.

## Function Configuration

### Batch Function Environment Variables

The `gbfs-validator-batch` function requires the following environment variables:

- **`PUBSUB_TOPIC_NAME`**: The name of the Pub/Sub topic where messages will be published.
- **`PROJECT_ID`**: The Google Cloud Project ID used to construct the full topic path.
- **`FEEDS_DATABASE_URL`**: The database connection string for accessing the GBFS feeds.

### Pub/Sub Function Environment Variables

The `gbfs-validator-pubsub` function requires the following environment variables:

- **`BUCKET_NAME`**: The name of the Cloud Storage bucket where the GBFS snapshots will be stored. Defaults to `"mobilitydata-gbfs-snapshots-dev"` if not set.
- **`FEEDS_DATABASE_URL`**: The database connection string for accessing the GBFS feeds.
- **`MAXIMUM_EXECUTIONS`**: The maximum number of times a trace can be executed before it is considered as having reached its limit. Defaults to `1` if not set.

## Local Development

For local development, these functions should be developed and tested according to standard practices for GCP serverless functions. Refer to the main [README.md](../README.md) file for general instructions on setting up the development environment.
